SUMMARY
Vít Jedlička presents a comprehensive overview of Liberland at a Prague conference, covering its legal status, governance system, blockchain infrastructure, diplomatic progress, and future plans. He emphasizes that Liberland is not a micronation but a para-state (as reclassified by Croatia), explains how it meets all four Montevideo criteria for statehood, and details the meritocratic governance system running on blockchain. He describes Liberland's Congress, Senate, Supreme Court, Uberized security model, decentralized justice system, and plans for competitive embassy elections. Notable supporters include Ron Paul, Javier Milei, and Vitalik Buterin. Justin Sun was elected as prime minister. The talk concludes with invitations to visit Liberland and attend upcoming events.

KEY POINTS
- Not a micronation: reclassified by Croatia from "organized group" to "para-state" — taken seriously by neighbors
- Meets all Montevideo criteria: permanent population (2+ years despite 12 raids and floods), defined territory (7 sq km, 3x Monaco), government, diplomatic capacity
- 1,300 citizens, 800,000 sign-ups, representation in 90+ countries, 15 physical offices including Washington DC
- Governance: meritocracy (shareholding structure with voluntary taxes earning merits/shares), republic (limited to security, justice, diplomacy), democracy (citizen veto power only — cannot create new laws), monarchy (Senate of 100 top contributors)
- All governance runs on blockchain (blockchain.liberland.org) — EVM compatible, supports smart contracts, company registration, property registration
- Congress: 21 members elected every 3 months; Justin Sun elected as PM (wealthiest PM ever); Britannica Kaiser as whistleblower member
- Uberized security: app-based system where anyone can respond to security incidents; also used for public tenders
- Decentralized justice: market of judges, AI-assisted first-round dispute resolution, two-party judge selection system
- Embassy reform: yearly elections of ambassadors by merit holders instead of political appointments
- Blockchain removes 90% of bureaucracy; estimated 5-10% economic growth boost; voluntary taxes add another 5-10%
- Supporters: Ron Paul, Javier Milei, Vitalik Buterin (committed to join when 100 people live there)
- Upcoming: longevity conference (Nov 3-4), boat ride to Liberland (Nov 5), constitutional convention in Prague (Dec 19) with Herman Hoppe and Stefan Kinsella

---

Thank you. [applause] Um, of course, always great pleasure uh to be here and it's a perfect spot. Prague of course that's where Liberal also started uh for conferences like this. Let me just fix one more thing one more thing here actually which is not just my pronunciation my my surname which is Lichka but but also the fact actually we're not micronation.

This is I would say very important small element that needs to be clarified. Um the definition of micronation is actually it is not being taken seriously by the neighbors or by by the country in which it was built. And I can tell you we're being taken very seriously by our neighbors. Uh that's why we have been reclassified from organized group into a par state by Croatia itself in the legal paperwork two years ago already which is a nice honor for us as well.

They see us in a similar way I would say at this stage which is not probably the most favorable way. Uh but we're definitely not a micronation and we are trying to convince them with all our powers that we are actually very beneficial project for the whole region and especially for Croatia. So they don't see us as a threat. They really see us as an opportunity.

That has been the challenge from the beginning. I think you have seen how many challenges projects like Seastats are facing and you can imagine that the situation of Liberland is also uh not easy from from especially from our neighbor Croatia. But what we have managed to do over the last couple of years is to stabilize the situation. Liberlanders are actually living nicely in Liberland for last two years.

And uh let me give you a short video of some of our achievements with our anthem and with some of the great guys that are supporting Liberland such as Ron Paul. Uh it's great to have him behind our back or even Javier Mille that has been actually running his campaign for presidency as a general coming from Liberland to save Argentina. [music] And of course we have some other great guys like Vitalik Bhuterin. Vitalik made a personal commitment that once there will be 100 people living in Liberland, he's going to join a personally the effort uh to build a prosperous society.

[music] And we have this goal to have 100 people living there from let's say 7 8 12 right now that we have to uh 200 over the next spring. So I believe we'll be able to import much more people. Uh this is our venue called the Ark. That's where most of the events are happening.

It's right next to Liberland. uh and that's where we are basing our settlement from and I'm actually going to arc right away from this conference because we have a conference that I will invite you to if we can skip the video it doesn't go in the loop thank you so it's more than 25 years uh ago where that uh basically there was complete resign of any title from from Serbia to the territory of Liberal that gave us a very clear status when it comes comes to no man's land. So Croatia has never ever officially accepted territory of Liberland in any shape or form while Serbia has actually given up the territory and deleted everything from their catastro maps and that what gave us the opportunity to start the country on on 13th of April 2015 was actually the birthday of Thomas Jefferson. We really wanted to invoke the spirit of American revolution and uh if there is somebody else by the way is there somebody else to planning to start a fullfledged country uh is okay one two three okay four five six okay there is okay not just zones but also full countries that's what I appreciate uh there are a couple things that you really need to fulfill in order to be considered by country and you don't necessarily need to be recognized by other countries that's very important element of international law that countries like Somali land are de facto countries or states because the Monteo criteria basically says that the rec the existence of state is independent from the recognition by other states but what it needs to follow is to have permanent population defined territory government and capacity to enter into relations with other countries.

So we have a permanent population. It's the it was the most challenging part of getting things done. Last two years people permanently live there. Despite two major flood waves, despite I think now 12 rounds of raids in Liberland, uh people still live there and we are prospering, I would say more and more.

We're actually building there again right as we speak. We have defined territory. We have given Croatia and Serbia extra half meter in like so there is like a no man's land between Croatia and Liberland. Uh so we don't have any potential territorial dispute.

We have a government. I believe we have built one of the most exciting types of governance systems. That was really result of me looking for many years how governance can be structured in order to to merge all the existing constitutions and their best ideas with the best technologies that are currently available through blockchain. And we have capacity to enter into relation with other states.

I've been on multiple official state visits including for example El Salvador. uh but we have seen a backlash from Croatia where they had not &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; um saved money on efforts leading to unrecognition of Liberland. So while Liberland for example in El Salvador financed the hospital as part of our recognition process and as part of my official visit to the country they actually managed to finance another school. So from from our side, we are incentivizing Croatia to do humanitarian projects abroad as part of the the larger recognition run for for Liberland, which is kind of fun.

Uh and and that's right now we're what what we are doing is that we are doing kind of a silent diplomacy. We're working with the states, but we are not publishing our diplomatic successes. Liberalent is 7 square kilometers uh which is three times bigger than Monaco. You've got now 1,300 citizens functioning representation in more than 90 countries around the world.

If you go almost everywhere in any civilized part of the world, you can always find a reliable liberal lender you can rely on. And there are around 15 physical offices uh right now where you can visit. We have a really nice one in Washington DC. I think better than most of regular European embassies.

And we've got now 800,000 people that signed up for citizenship, which is a fairly decent nation. So let me explain you a little bit more about the governance itself and uh I really I really believe we did a good job uh when it comes to structuring the the best elements of meritocracy and this is a true meritocracy meaning basically it's a shareholding structure of Liberland. All new taxpayers of Liberland have the right to receive merits in exchange for their contribution. There are only voluntary taxes in Liberland.

I believe it's a decent system. Uh I I really like Herman Hanzul that the taxes are the price to pay uh for not being able to build civilized society. In in Liberland we are trying to build a civilized society uh so people don't have to pay taxes. They're always buying more into the country into the ownership and the merit merits are voting the people in Congress.

So there is this board of directors that gets to be created. We're also republic because we don't want to organize things like healthcare, um things like education. We want our government to strictly focus on security, justice, and diplomacy. We're also de uh democracy because we basically allow majority of citizens to veto any rule or law they don't like.

We don't give them the chance to make new rules or to nominate new people to power. And we have already seen quite interesting challenges uh with that regard. The democracy I would say is very malicious element uh in general and the founding fathers of United States have actually recognized it very well. U so I'm trying to uh keep that in check but at the same time give democracy a voice to be able to really remove anything that they don't like and it works very well in Switzerland.

Whoever you are from Switzerland, you know that this is an element that really works. And there is a monarchical element to Liberland because all the biggest contributors to Liberland actually become members of Senate. There is 100 seats in Senate. It's this oligarchical body of people that really managed to support Liberland quite a bit.

The other option of getting into Senate is getting Liberal recognized by some sovereign country. So there are two ways how to how to become senators and it's all powered on blockchain. So it's all basically trustless auditable code uh that I believe we are just going through the last security audit of this whole system uh before we'll be officially releasing it and voting for the constitution of liberal. So you can actually check it blockchain.liberland.org.

Uh there is not just governance. We also register companies on our blockchain. Uh we register any kind of other property. There this possibility to create smart contracts.

Liberal has become EVM compatible. That means you can run any kind of smart contract like you can run on Ethereum. Uh which I believe will be very useful in the in the near future. Uh you can you know for example run another version of unis swap or you can launch stable coins that are privacy oriented.

All these things are some of the projects that are taking off on Liberland blockchain right now. And we have very famous people in Congress already. I believe it's an interesting accomplishment that Liberland's prime minister is the wealthiest prime minister ever elected in in any uh uh any country on the world. And we have people like Britannic Kaiser, very famous whistleblower, Navidit Sabarian, our minister of finance, Michael who is here with me for example, Tarik Kabasi, famous diplomat uh from UK.

So we've got a very strong body in Congress and uh then there is the role of Supreme Court making sure that again liberal only stays a republic. It doesn't start uh doing many other things which it shouldn't. And uh and what is what is one of the key things which I want to personally bring uh to the table and this is a part of the discussion for example that I have with professor Kinsula is that liberal is organizing security justice and diplomacy but is thinking about how to best introduce competition into these three areas as well. So for security we have Uberiz security.

We allow almost anybody basically easily to join and allow to help with security incidents. We use the same app also to run public tenders. So if you jump to app.lan.org you can easily download the mobile application. Try it.

There is actually security incident for this conference. You can get the discount on e- residency if you take part of that security incident. Just try it. Then for justice we want to organize a market of judges and really introduce some of the elements of international arbitrage which I believe will be quite important uh for for the for making liberal and justice system very competitive with other places.

We just want to innovate in that area as well. um again allow competition between the judges so that the state does have some control who can be and who cannot be judge but in general the entry level for that uh will be very easy and it shouldn't be a problem and what we are now working on as well and I believe it will also help us quite a bit that it's not just ministry of foreign affairs that delegates new ambassadors that actually every single embassy will be a separate dowo that will be elected again my married holders so there will be In Congress, we have elections every 3 months. And what we're planning to do for embassies that we will have yearly elections of ambassadors. So there will be competition.

People will be presenting their plans for their countries. So that the representatives are not sleeping. They always have something to debate what could be done uh to support Liberal from any country around the world. Okay.

Democratic. mentioned that blockchain is very important because what it actually does we are able to remove 90% of bureaucracy from a nation state that itself should release at least five I would say even 10% of economic growth if you make all the transactions trustless seamless happening in 1 second whatever we are doing however we are interacting with the state this should be a major boost so voluntary tax is a major boost and reducing bureaucracy to complete minimum I believe that functioning society a free society should grow at the rate of 20% a year which with our system is fully achievable. So I would like to invite you to join us in Liberland. There is a great opportunity to jump on bus on Monday morning.

Uh you can join us for the longevity conference. We've got BBC following us this time. Uh so 3rd and 4th of November. Uh we are going to host quite a few important names and uh it will be more of a like relaxing family size event.

uh but with the with the famous BBC reporters following us and then on 5th there is a boat ride to liberal land so quite if you're free in next couple of days we're more than happy uh to host you can also visit the freedom project uh which is being developed on Liberty Island now as we speak we finally have uh hot water there as well uh so we're becoming more and more civilized despite still some serious obstacles from Croatia but I'm very grateful that the situation the security situation with Croatia has improved quite a bit uh in especially in last nine months and we are working on making sure that that liberal land is more accepted in the whole region. So we're launching multiple projects that we are planning to tokenize on our blockchain and on other blockchains actually uh to grow the economy the regional economy uh fix the local ports make commercial centers and then ARC in ARC where where there is longevity event will be we're launching another development uh plan uh with the longevity clinic and also with the spa. So you can you can actually see all these plans uh when you when you join us you can look into it. Maybe you you are we would be interested to be part of that project as well.

And yet another important invitation again back to Prague if you like uh the the city just before Christmas the 19th of December we're hosting Herman Han Herman Stefan Kinsella Alexandra Fusilo and we'll be discussing these elements of liberal constitution and its final wording. We are not rushing with with voting on the constitution. We want really want to have a proper debate and join it with a nice gala dinner here in Prague on 19th of December. So that's it from me.

Thank you very much for hosting Liberland. I'm very grateful for all these events. [applause]
