Like the the fact that you were born
somewhere doesn't mean that you have
signed all these contracts to pay taxes
there forever.
Wit is not trying to create another
company. He's trying to create another
country.
Countries are basically imaginary. Those
are just human concepts, right? There is
nothing substantial behind it.
And for 10,000 years, we've been
fighting over land, resources, you know,
power, dominance.
>> What is the most dangerous thing, of
course, is this kind of concept of
global government. The fact that you
have actually nowhere to flee when you
fall out of grace.
We got an extraordinary guest today. We
have Vit who is actually the president
of Republic of Liberland.
Um very interesting concept. I'm like
I'm super excited to be talking to him.
I met him in Davos. Uh and here we are
in Switzerland actually shooting this
very episode of tomorrow today with
Shaker Natraan wherein we discuss about
technology that is emerging today and
what is a societal impact in the future.
That's the show all about and vit like
welcome to the show. Um can you please
introduce yourself and what you do and
all that stuff?
>> Great to be with you. We're building a
new country which is between Croatia and
Serbia. But it's mainly the big idea
behind the country that we can establish
a new society.
Not just using blockchain which is
pretty cool and inevitable for for the
future of humanity but also doing it on
voluntary basis. removing this idea that
state has the power not just to fix
crime which is probably okay to have
such an institution but also use the
violence to extort money from its own
citizens. So our idea from the very
beginning was to build a voluntary
society and there are quite a few people
that follow the idea. We've got now
800,000 people that applied for
citizenship.
>> Wow. So you said like so I I want
everyone to hear this in the audience.
Wit is not trying to create another
company. He's trying to create another
country.
So, and and Vit like you know like you
and I started talking before the show.
Uh you said like you know the name Vit
has like some significance. Can you
please explain that to us? Originally it
it comes from of course Indian but
because Slavs actually originally very
likely came from India and Vit itself is
coming from Vas like a consciousness
right so u yeah well my name kind of
means consciousness
>> very good so we we watched the movie uh
the AI movie that we saw
I wanted to get like your first
reactions about the movie like you know
like that was that was set in 20 2470
um and the kid is wandering in along
with a bot which is actually his like
you know sort of his memory his like you
know system of record and uh both go
explore the flag of United States of
America uh you know which they don't
know it's you know they think It's a
cloth you know and so so this is sort of
like you know the view of the world
where technology has overtaken the
society and the societ and technology is
deciding for how humans need to be you
know live and behave. Uh what do you
think about that?
>> Well Liberal has been designed actually
to allow this merger of AI and humanity
by basically giving AI proper interface
for governance. This will be inevitable
also. uh but I I believe truly that AI
really doesn't have any purpose unless
it's kind of given from outside. We
might not necessarily understand how
it's working within but of course there
are humans that designed it and they fed
it with the data. uh so we have to be
very careful what are we feeding
different AI models and what kind of
responsibilities are we giving it and of
course there we will have to find some
balance between the influence direct
influence of AI
>> how much AI will become how many senator
places or congressman places will AI
take in liberal land in near future and
how many will be still left with humans
uh but but I believe there is this great
opportunity to to create this balance
now between humans and AI
on these blockchains that are actually
defining how the society should be
structured and organized.
>> Wow. Okay. So, so you believe in that
concept, huh?
>> Well, I believe that we really have to
take full responsibility for what we're
building and utilize the technology for
improvement of the society rather than
for creating something that would be
detrimental to human freedom.
>> Yeah. So you know like I I find this
extraordinary um you know what is
happening in the world today. Um you
know there are 195 countries but if you
if you count Liberland and if you count
like Somali land uh which is also like
you know uh just made into the news with
Israel actually formally accepting um
you know that as a country. Uh now we
have 197 and for 10,000 years uh we've
been fighting over land resources
um you know power dominance
uh and so it's it's it's basically like
you know when I think about all of that
we've drawn all these lines right that
should have never existed in the world
and we are fighting for those lines we
cooperate economically but we basically
want to control things politically
Um and so you know that brings me to the
question like are we like tribals in the
first place? Well, let's think about the
borders also from the other side, right?
like one one side is like it's an
arbitrary line which somebody made
somewhere and yes like it's all
imaginary just like
all the countries are basically
imaginary those are just human concepts
right there is nothing substantial
behind it but uh what I think and that's
not stressed enough like borders are
actually also limits of power of
government
>> because yes like these governments they
have the ultimate power for violence
they have they have the monopoly on
violence on some territory but that
monopoly ends with that line. That is
quite useful. You know, if you are
trying to flee some regime that is
trying to kill you
for whatever reason or if just to tax
you or something like that that you have
this line that you can skip over to and
you have um this freedom to to get rid
of that jurisdiction or regulation. And
what I'm what I believe and what my
thesis was about when I was uh doing my
studies on university
was that what is the most dangerous
thing of course is this kind of concept
of global government. the fact that you
have actually nowhere to flee when you
fall out of grace, you know, and Snowden
is kind of lucky, you know, he can still
go to Russia, but if there was no
Russia, basically he cannot jump to
China because China would give Snowden
back to United States immediately,
right? like we we are very close to this
concept of global government and that
that I think is the most dangerous
concept that we are playing with
>> because we know that the power corrupts
and ultimate power corrupts ultimately
>> and the people running the global
government or running the AI that will
be running the global government or just
the AI basically that has no nothing
that can control it behind or there is
nowhere else to hide is the most I would
say dangerous thing for for humanity
that
importance of having competition when it
comes to jurisdiction on this planet is
actually one of the most important
things.
>> So you you think like lines are the
imaginary lines you've drawn um is one
that actually helps the society.
>> Well, it helps to establish some sort of
balance. It's just like with with the
language models or with AI in general,
right? This problem is that it's not a
problem when there is millions of hyper
intelligent uh language models that are
able to govern the world. The problem is
when there is one that rules them all
and that actually becomes corrupt by the
fact that it doesn't have any
competition. There is nothing that can
keep it in balance. So yes, I'm big
favor in big favor of of Europe made out
of thousand likensteines rather than big
one European Union.
>> But on the other hand, I also see that
people are really becoming like
globalistic in that sense that they are
able to move wherever they want where
they are being treated the best. And
these two concepts when they actually
come together that you will have more
options to decide where you go to uh and
and the fact that um it's quite easy to
actually move to better place and that
the jurisdictions kind of become global
when they like countries like like
Laborland will erupt very soon. Every
single company would like to have its
own jurisdiction or or like a space for
freedom. we will see Google trying to
basically create its own state somewhere
as well which is good because there will
be again more options for people to
choose between and and uh and ultimately
the things will kind of blend you know
because no matter where you are you will
be able to decide which tribal tribe you
want to stick with uh and you will be
able to to migrate between the tribes
which is also also good but yes there is
still this push to create this global
government that will rule everybody And
yes like United States is kind of at the
front
forefront basically pushing it through
all these institutions like NATO it's
global power right now and we are close
to this I would say unwanted model of
having one single player that has too
much power uh in the global politics.
>> Got it. Got it. Got it. Got it. Like
this is interesting thought. So uh uh
like you know like I wanted to touch on
the topic of tribalism a little bit more
right like you know so where does uh
tribalism start in the like you know in
your head like in the sense is it is it
the identity like you know do you belong
to like a sports club? Do you belong to
a neighborhood? Is it your house where
you actually become a tribal like where
do you begin to think about the concept
of tribalism and how does it evolve?
Yeah, like people want to belong to
certain group and uh and of course like
certain groups actually are operating on
certain levels of consciousness as well
or certain levels of emotions and that
gives them this identity. So you know
somebody is feels as part of the group
based on their religion right so they
found a country based on religion
somebody just feels that it's kind of
his genetical identity so it's based on
um the color of skin but we know very
well historically that the best
countries are not founded on the color
of skin or religion there are the
countries that are based like here for
example in Switzerland it's complete
mixture of languages colors of skin etc.
But they're based on the similar
similar perception of how their
government should operate
>> and they are actually very distrustful
to their own politicians.
>> So these tribes that don't trust their
own politicians end up to be the most
best functioning ones because they they
understand again that the power corrupts
and that ultimate power corrupts
ultimately and they understand that
these politicians over the time uh
become corrupted. So we in Liberland
also have this uh sense that's why for
example elections are every 3 months in
Liberland. That's why we want to make
sure that nobody can stay very long in
the position of power and uh and yes
like also we are not bound by anything
else in Liberland by than by sharing the
belief that we need more freedom on this
planet. We don't we don't need less
freedom and that that comes down to
personal freedoms, economic freedoms. We
know that that always brings more
prosperity and more happiness into the
society.
>> But the very uh definition of the tribe,
right? Like you know like you you you
have a tribe because of your religious
belief. You have a tribe you belong to
because you are affiliated to a sport,
>> right? You have a tribe because you
build, you know, you belong to a certain
community. But then the the right next
door neighbor or even your own kit and
kin, they belong to a different tribe.
So how do you reconcile that?
>> Well, we really want to offer better
system of governance to people. And when
people recognize that that being tribal
based on the fact that you have better
government is actually more useful than
having tribe based on the fact that I
don't know you were born in Croatia. Uh
that will eventually bring all the smart
people from all these other countries
and nations together. That's why we've
got 800,000 people from all around the
world. We're literally harvesting the
the the best minds from all around the
world that realize that there is a huge
amount of prosperity to be unleashed
when you actually
make better form of of society. I'm not
saying that what we're doing in
Liberland is the the best possible one.
We're still exploring what that
organization could be, but I believe
it's by order of magnitude in some cases
better than what we've got today with
these existing tribes governing
different plots of land on planet.
>> So this tribe that we we talk about
right like you know that is like you you
like wit as a person belongs to multiple
tribes at the same time. you transcend
one tribe because imagine right like you
know you you were in Davos and um you
you talk like a devotion to be honest
right like you know you were you were
wearing that color you were wearing that
like you know sort of like persona of a
statesman in divorce now like you know
you're a very common man sitting and
talking to me like you know like you
know relatable then you go back like to
your home and you you're very different
so humans actually are multi-ribal in in
general. So how do you even classify the
humans to belong to a certain region and
a location or a or a geography? Is it
not like an idea that is far too fetched
in terms of like you know finding the
right fit for all these groups of people
who are like-minded to sit in one place
and then basically harvest what is
mother nature has given us.
>> Well like you know the fact that you're
being born somewhere on some territory
doesn't have to doesn't have to mean
that you actually feel like you belong,
right? like the the fact that you were
born somewhere doesn't mean that you
have signed all these contracts to pay
taxes there forever and with liberal
we're really making a society that is
selecting itself you know people are
really coming together because they
believe in some shared principle which
is something quite new I mean we had
something like that in the United States
like people were coming leaving leaving
Europe to find a freer place or have
more space like this is not something
completely completely new in that sense.
But in modern history, what liberal
really represents is that people are
building a nation or building a society
basically based on shared belief rather
than any other form of tribalism which I
believe is making our society quite
powerful or or quite homogeneous in in
that that we believe that we need better
and newer system of governance. So tell
me like you know I I know that this this
piece of land that Liberland right the
the Republic of Liberland is between
Croatia and Serbia. It is at 7 uh
kilometers like 7 km square actually
pretty tiny land and you're you're
talking about like 800,000 people who
have actually applied for the
citizenship. So how does it work? Like I
want like my viewers to understand like
what is the principles of Liberland? How
do you think about the citizenship? What
do you gain out of it? Uh like you know
is it like is it like you know time
sharing like what is it?
>> Because I I can I cannot imagine like
800,000 people living in like a 7
kilometer square somewhere. Uh so is it
a virtual concept? What is it like you
know just
>> no it's it's we would be the most
overpop populated country on planet and
imagine imagine that you know without
any infrastructure 10 years ago we had
bigger immigration numbers per month
than United States for a couple of
months actually it was crazy right
and uh yes like you can see that there
the this idea was kind of overdue there
was a large demand much larger than we
expected initially I was thinking that
we might get like 20,000 people signed
up for citizenship in one year and we
got it on the first day and then 200,000
people signed up on on the first week.
It was crazy.
>> Um so yes, you know, we cannot fit
everybody in Liberland whoever has
applied. Uh and of course like actually
reallocating people physically to
Liberal is a little bit more challenging
than we expected as well. uh but yes
there is at least 1% of 1% of global
population that really believes in the
the principles that liberal is
representing and that is the
volunteerism to the core meaning really
removing this power from the state to
extort taxes on you whenever the
politicians decide they they will rob
you.
So that's what liberal represents. It's
a it's an idea that we can build better
better society and yes like
funny fun fact you know checks I'm
originally check uh we according to some
history books or the first chronic of
Czech nation we were actually coming
from the territory between Croatia and
Serbia the the guy called Czech was
kicked out of this territory between
Croatia and Serbia because he supposedly
killed somebody. Uh so we like checks
have historical ties to to territory
between Croatia and Serbia. An
interesting interesting fact. So in in a
sense like chicks are coming back but
it's really not the checks because there
is much more Americans that applied for
citizenship. There is 35,000 Americans
that apply to for the citizenship. There
is 60,000 people from Turkey that
applied for citizenship. So no
>> why do they come to Liberland? Why do
they come there? because because they
many people simply like the idea of of
building new society in general
>> and I I believe that that we did a very
good selection when it comes to ideology
on which to build that society against
>> talk to me more about it like what's the
ideology of
>> of course well the volunteerism itself
is basically represented by
libertarianism we call it libertarianism
there are these famous people now like
Javier Mille uh who has become the
president of Argentina recently that it
identified themselves not just as
libertarians but also as liberalers like
long before he became president he was
already campaigning that he's a general
coming from Liberland to fix Argentina
that was that was quite funny there are
quite a few videos about that and we're
more proud that he became also citizen
of Liberland so this idea really like is
like connecting people across the
Now the new foreign minister of Czech
Republic also applied for citizenship of
Liberland and we're more than happy that
that now we have different heads of
different governments across the world
that feel like they belong to this idea
and they understand that pushing through
this idea in their home country is
extremely difficult. First of all, these
countries have enormous depths. There is
like a huge ideological differentiation
between the people. Some people would
like to have communism, some people
would like to have more capitalism, but
you cannot really push them all the way
towards liberal land as an ideal society
set up. Uh, but we in Liberland, we've
got this great opportunity to start
things from from scratch and we can do
them in like a perfect perfect way. So
basically we call it a meritocracy. We
are not democracy.
>> Meaning that anybody that contributes to
Liberland basically gets merits for
their contribution. And then with these
merits, people are actually making the
decisions directly. We've got kind of a
direct not democracy but meritocracy.
And I believe that's also better
political system than any democratic
society that we could see today. And we
know very well from history that places
that have been working on a meritocratic
principles like Singapore, like Dubai
have done enormously well. And we are
turning this meritocracy into a system
of governance, direct system of
governance. I believe that will also
help us to to grow Liberland fairly
quickly. And we're already growing.
We're doubling our economy. Last year we
doubled Liberland economy. So 200%
economic growth.
>> So what does that mean? Like you know
like what is your G like like is it like
1 billion? Is it like two billion? like
>> well it's hard to say because we don't
have the statistics bureau but because
our because we've got we had also new
citizen Justin Sun the founder of Tron
ecosystem
>> which is one of the fastest growing
blockchains on the planet also with
hundreds of millions people's joining it
and with you know billions of dollars
worth of value Liberal has become one of
the wealthiest nations per capita just
because he actually joined but it's not
all about body really like liberal is
open to everybody. It's it's more of an
idea
>> that anybody can join the fact that they
want to live in a society based based on
voluntarism rather than coercion and uh
that that I believe that's what attracts
the people. It's not not the wealth per
se.
>> So let's let's do a little bit of a
double click on this. So seven uh
kilometer square kilometer.
>> So it's all water.
>> No,
>> some water some like land. It's we're
actually a beautiful
heart-shaped territory
>> with some 3 kilometers of of the
waterfront which is on the Danu River.
Dan River is like 1 kilometer wide
river. It's all nice sandy beaches.
>> So what is the land and the water? How
much is it?
>> Well, the land is around I would say
15%.
>> And that's the Denub River with an
island, small island called Liberty
Island. That's where we are actually
building the settlement now
>> after overcoming a lot of obstacles that
Croatia laid in front of us.
>> You've been to prison many times, I
heard.
>> Well, yes. Yes. And the fun fact was
that when I first got arrested,
>> the the judge said, "I'm evil because
his kids almost also got arrested for
for going to Liberland because they
wanted to visit the territory." And they
als he also said that all good
presidents always get arrested before
becoming president. So that was a this
famous judge Savo that that I would say
was a fan or is still a fan of Liberland
and was like important person for all
these court cases in the initial days of
existence of Liberland.
>> So so it's like it's basically like uh
15% is land or 85
>> 15% is water let's say and 85 is land
>> water and but what what happens from
time to time?
>> So what is land and water like I still
didn't
>> Yeah. still around around let's say 15%
is water that's the Danu river and the
rest is is land but the problem
sometimes that we are facing is that
sometimes we are 90% of water when the
water rises during the flood flooding
that's like every every two years
Liberland gets flooded and that's why we
have to build everything basically like
three houses high above the ground or
has to be floating in Liberland right
now it's just a technicality
>> but a fun fact about Liberland that that
we're building kind of a treehouse uh
society. M
>> so on that on that like you know 85%
land or like it could be like 10% of the
land like technically how many people
can live
>> well if you want to have same density
like Macau that would be around 120
150,000 people
>> 150,000 people so and we are like we
have like 800,000 people
>> we've got we are a little bit over more
overpop populated than the most overpop
populated place on planet
>> so it's almost like eight or 10 times
overpop populated so like where do they
like if I if I wanted to become like the
citizen of Liberland, right? Republic of
Liberland. Like
what is the threshold like in the sense
like you know how many people are too
many people?
>> Well, to be honest with you, I think
it's it's a technicality. We can build
space elevators and and we can take and
are we going to expand the territory as
well at some point, right? Like
>> how do you know that? Like it's not
yours.
>> Yes. Well, the the the thing about
liberal land is very interesting because
historically we claimed liberal land
because no other country claimed it and
we are still in the this position that
there is no overlapping claim by other
countries. It was kind of anomaly where
both countries couldn't agree on the
borders and they both didn't claim this
seven square kilometers.
>> But
just like United States is now trying to
buy
>> Greenland or it bought Alaska,
Liberaland also at some point when it
becomes a mature country with a lot of
economic power can potentially buy
pieces of land anywhere around the
world. M mhm. And and and are you going
to be like, you know, buying that land
for what? Like experiences, different
experiences or similar values or
>> for jurisdiction really. Jurisdiction
meaning that these set of laws that we
are putting together
should be really much better than any
other set of laws. That's what attracts
people, right? Like if you're living in
a free society that really brings
freedom and if that jurisdiction or that
set of laws is also protecting you from
being robbed by other members of that
society, you're literally creating the
best country on the planet. Right?
>> A country which protects everybody from
being robbed yet it doesn't rob its own
citizens with taxes. And uh I can
guarantee you that we will have the
highest growth rates when it comes to
economy. Also also highest happiness
levels when it comes to people wanting
to come and living in Liberland.
>> How does the government make money?
>> Well, the government actually sells
shares of of itself which is also
completely new concept. So in Liberland
everybody become basically becomes not
just citizen but also shareholder of its
own country and that those shares are
called the merits but uh for some
strange reason that has never been
really tried. Some sometimes people say
that when you become citizen of country
you become shareholder but it's not
true. Nobody's really giving you any
dividends. You are expected to pay taxes
rather than receive dividends.
uh and that also is important concept
about liberal land really like we don't
want the state to be liability for its
citizens something that drains your
resources the state the fact that you're
member of a state should mean that you
are should be profiting from the fact
that you associate yourself with this
group it's it's a big privilege actually
of this corporation like United States
to have this power to tax people right
like it's it's also every country is
kind of a company. It's association of
people and all these countries have this
right to take away your property without
asking you and for some strange reason
instead of being profitable they are in
depth and they're in deep trouble. um
rather than bringing value to it. So
when citizens sometimes they're more of
a a troublemaker and on top of that it
creates these crazy laws sometimes and
and there are so many of them that you
have no chance to read it and you're
always breaking some law and they want
to find you for breaking law that you
cannot even finish reading in your life.
>> So let's say like you know like so what
is the in this case then what is the
role of the government like they're not
buying the shares they're part of the
land. Do you tax them? You don't tax
them?
>> No, no, no. The only tax that we are
considering in the future would be land
tax because if people stop caring about
their physical property, we need to have
some way to start pushing them to start
taking care. But that's the only only
tax that we see. But otherwise, we
believe that the state can be completely
funded basically through continuous st
uh through continuous sale of the shares
of the country itself. So like would
explain the explain the selling of the
share concept like so like do you put in
money to get the shares or what happens?
>> Yes, you can either contribute your
finances
>> which you in order to get 5,000 merits
you need to invest now $10,000 or you
can invest your time, you can invest
your expertise, you can invest your
connections, you can invest your media
capacities into Liberland and we are
trying to value everybody's contribution
in a fair way.
>> So how do you value that? who values
that?
>> Well, right now we've got this nice
mobile app actually and whenever
Liberland needs to get something done.
Uh we start an auction. So there is like
open market auction for let's say 70% of
all things that Liberland is doing which
I think is a pretty smart concept
because we have transparency in the way
that the state distributes not just
United States dollars but also merits a
very important thing. So and what also
is important about liberal land from the
other side is that our expenses should
be minimal because the state by
constitution only takes care of
security, justice and diplomacy. Really
the the three things that the state
should organize. We leave the other
things to private sector. We don't
organize
u healthcare, we don't organize
education. We believe you can start your
school in Liberland anytime and do that.
But these things that kind of need this
monopoly approach where there should be
no competing diplomatic representation
or there should not be two competing
bullies shooting at each other or there
should not be two judges that try to
judge themselves. You know who is wrong.
We we try to make sure that the state
really only takes care of these areas.
But on top of that, we actually we
actually install the competition. So in
liberal land we're just finishing the
building market of judges. Anybody kind
of can become a judge and offer their
services. What we have done with this
mobile app is that anybody can become
kind of policemen and also can react
just like Uber driver can react to
police incidents in Liberland and
outside of Liberland. So we had uh nine
policemen Liberal policeman on duty in
Davos last time I checked when I opened
the application. So we're trying to
innovate even in these areas trying to
make the the government more efficient
and more competitive inside.
>> So you you talked about criminal
justice, you talked about basically um
governance um and you talk about like
you know like regulatory framework that
you will offer. All of this needs money.
>> Where are you getting the money?
>> Yes. People are becoming citizens quite
>> giving you money.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. and supporting developing
the concept and any money that comes to
Liberal basically goes through this
process of open auctions then it's being
decided by Congress how the money will
be spent and this Congress again is
elected every 3 months and we are trying
to have the smartest people the people
that have also created a lot of value in
their lives to be in the government of
Liberland. So, so really decide
efficiently how that money is going to
spend and that of course increases the
the value of becoming citizen of liberal
land because you are a member of a
society that rationally and
systematically creates more freedom for
its own citizen. So there is this now
nice big bonus for everybody that
becomes citizen that they can also claim
the residency tax residency in Paraguay
which offers complete tax freedom
already. And if you cannot beat them,
join them. So that's what we did with
Paraguay. They are really offering very
nice tax residency and you get a a
driving license with all categories
included if you stay in in Paraguay as a
resident for two years. So there are
these great bonuses which we cannot even
compete from from Liberland perspective.
So we are just supporting also other
countries in this regard.
>> So how does that work?
>> It works quite well. you know, citizens.
We've got quite a few new citizens of
Liberal and they just became uh citizens
because of course they like Liberal but
because of this bonus that we have
because we have these very good
>> So you have a partnership with Paraguay?
>> Yes, we have a partnership kind of
partnership with Paraguay. We've got the
best lawyers there and and most of I
would say okay 30% of newly balanced
citizens also are becoming residents tax
residents of Paraguay. So like I I I
hear uh everything that you said has
eerie similarity to like how United
States got started. Okay. But United
States became what United States is like
over a period of 250 years.
>> Yes.
>> So how do you ensure that in the next
300 years like Liberland doesn't become
like United States. Not that United
States is bad. I'm not saying any of
that. But like you know it has its own
set of challenges whether it's Medicare
it's whether it's basically like
regulatory framework whether it's
governance whether it's like criminal
justice system you name it like you know
like
polarized society right so how do we
ensure that like you as a president a
vision for 300 years out how do you
ensure that that's not going to happen
>> well first of all we were really
inspired by the founding fathers so
liberal was actually started on 13th of
April that that was 272nd birthday of to
Thomas Jefferson. We wanted to invoke
the spirit of American revolution and
yes we have learned that there were
mistakes or not that there were mistakes
in the constitution but the way the
society developed basically broke this
American model right the really the
United States were also supposed to take
care of justice diplomacy and security
and leave the rest to the people and of
course United States would be much
better off if it didn't have this
regulated medical system and crazy state
system for teaching kids etc. Uh so in
liberal land what we have done and it's
very important is that we have only one
institution that can create new laws
that is congress
>> but then we have three institutions that
can get rid of the laws to prevent the
everinccreasing size of government with
new programs with new ideas how to spend
the taxpayers money and also this fact
that we are only basically getting the
money through voluntary means is a great
restraint for growth of government. Uh
we don't want to end up like EU with
600,000 pages of regulations that nobody
can read and with 60 countries with 60
taxes on general in every in every
member state. Right? So for us this the
fact that these institutions were built
in the way that um Congress makes the
laws but then the constitutional court
can get rid of them like in any any
other many other countries. That's
important. But then we have public veto
similar to Switzerland. Majority of
citizens can veto any law that they
don't like.
>> Very important element that help to keep
Switzerland safe from overregulation and
some crazy laws. But then we also have
this monarchical element, the House of
Lords of Liberland also that can strike
down new laws that would potentially be
harmful to freedoms of the citizens. So
we are focused with institutions to
systematically prevent what has happened
in United States that the government
would basically grow too big and too
without control.
>> Do you have a term life for your
presidency?
>> Yeah, the term is five years.
>> Five years
>> and yes like there these elections are
also
>> why is yours five years and why everyone
else is three months? Um because of this
monarchical element, we could see in
Dubai that actually monarchy like works
quite well
>> and uh and yes it's important that there
are actually people that care long term
about the country. It's not just from
one election to the other but we in
Senate as I'm chairman of the Senate as
a president we don't have the power to
create new laws, new regulations. So we
are not dangerous from that perspective.
We are really sitting there to watch and
make sure that the that the society
doesn't go sideways uh with some some
things like for example creating new
taxes or really keeping the spirit on
which liberal was founded and and again
we are just one of the three
institutions that are supposed to do
just that try to keep the number of laws
to to bare minimum that you need for
functioning society. Did you ever think
about like having like uh a technology
that mimics vit like you don't you are
not in power
>> but like like the technology the vit
technology is in power
>> well but this is very interesting topic
of course like who is going to inherit
these shares of liberal in the future
and that's not just me it's you know all
liberal is basically have the same
problem who will they give these merits
to and I think to be honest with you
that more likely than us giving these
merits to our children, we probably will
give it to a a AI that will represent
our viewpoint on the society.
>> But AI is so corrupt today like you know
there's no moral values to it.
>> Not true. Not true. Not true. Not true.
I think I think this this will be one of
the most interesting things about AI
that it will really become personalized
and it will be more like we have done
like something which we don't
understand. It's too complicated. But we
of course can use AI again to untangle
how AI really works inside and and build
our values into it. So what will be
possible that you take your whole you
know all your emails all your messages
you ever send all your perception of of
the world and you combine it with some
very transparent AI model that basically
knows everything about the world and you
blend the two things in one model kind
of a super read with with all the with
with the similar values but with all the
knowledge that you can get and that
model could potentially also at some
point take over my role as the president
in the system
>> and uh and lead country to to some
better future but just with this
position as a president the chairman of
senate with veto power over over the
congress actions. M m. So uh tell me
like how does the governance work in a
sense like you know explain to us like
in layman terms
>> like like who decides how do they decide
what comes in what goes out is it right
is it wrong how are you like the
conscious of the of the people like tell
me like how does it work
>> well what is very important about is
we're first ever decentralized
autonomous government so our all the
processes that government does basically
the constitution also has
first written as a smart contract
meaning it was a programmed language in
which all these institutions are
collaborating. The fact that the
elections are every 3 months is on a
second. Nobody can actually even change
it now without a vote of Congress.
Nobody can change these important terms
and limits inside of the fact that the
Senate itself is a multi- signature also
smart contract. Nobody can change it now
without having a constitutional change.
So that is one very important thing. We
have complete transparency about
internal processes, how liberal land
votes, how budgets and now we're working
also on the justice system. Very
important element. So everything is one
blockchain platform that every single
person that becomes citizen has the
right to run actually make quite some
decent amount of money by running a
validator uh inside of Liberland. And
now we've got 1300 citizens, people that
have contributed significant amount of
their energy into Liberland. And all of
these 1300 people have the right to run
on their soft smartphone even or on
their computer all the
software that the country uses to run
itself. Uh and everybody has the right
of course around the world to see
exactly how much money the for example
the the ministry of finance has on its
accounts because it's all blockchain all
completely transparent system. Very
important step for evolution of humanity
because these existing countries have
been working like black boxes and of
course like having a black box is a
great space for corruption. So that that
certainly increase efficiency of of
Liberal and government in general. But I
will tell you again the system how it
works. Every three months the new
Congress is elected. Now it's seven
people. We're more than proud again to
have Justin Sun and many other famous
people on board with Liberal government.
They are proposing the laws. When they
propose the laws, then there is a a
general referendum with everybody who
has merits. They have the right to cast
the vote. If majority of merits uh
decides or majority of the total merits
that decides that this is a good idea
then the vote gets to be elected.
>> But what is good today is not good like
10 years from now.
>> Well, this is why we we can still vote
in 10 years from now. That's very
important that the whole uh government
governance is flexible and we are
pushing now to actually give like AI
advisor to not just all citizens but
also to all congressmen as part of
improving the governance system. So you
basically wake up and the mobile app
tells you you know you're a congressman
maybe you could do this or you put could
put this on your social media or there
is a great opportunity to call Trump to
do something with him. So we will try to
make it kind of easy and interactive to
be citizen or policeman or anybody in
Liberal and trying to basically give a
proper advisory role through through
this new great technology that we have
the AI the mobile apps to to everybody
that is part of this great game of
creating a new country.
>> So how does healthcare happen in like
Liberland? Like I'm just curious now
like you know I got so many questions
about this interesting it's it's a
lovely concept like you know it's like I
think like um as I said like it feels
very similar to like how United States
was even conceived early days um with
all the spirit and the freedom of like
you know liberty and dignity and you
know uh freedom and justice and economic
prosperity. So um let's let's unpack
this for a a second. So uh let's say I
have cancer.
Okay. And I got to get treated like
where do I go?
>> Well, of course that's a private
business. Uh so me personally, I'm
heavily involved with building a
longevity clinic in Liberland. And uh
the fact is that there are many great
startup companies that levitate or
gravitate to to to Liberland. I think we
had already like 10 different medical
institutions that emailed us that
they're ready to build uh some medical
clinic in Liberland. So, we would like
to start building there as soon as
possible. Right now, we're focused on
building this longevity clinic in
Serbia, which is also right next to our
borders and we have complete stability
when it comes to construction. Uh so,
we're building this spa and longevity
clinic at the Liberal Arc Village, which
is the settlement only 5 kilometers. So,
who builds that? Like, is the government
building it or
>> No, it's right. Right now, it's my
private project and I'm I'm looking for
investors
>> and I was more than pleased to find out
that we have this new company called
Liberal Life uh that is coming to
Liberland. Most of the guys are from
Russia, but they're really top
scientists when it comes to research in
longevity and in healthcare. And they
offered to run the clinic for us. So I
believe we will have one of the best
best uh clinics for for for this kind of
stuff very soon.
>> So it's privately owned. This is
privately owned. Okay. So you you're
investing in it privately owned. Now
let's let's think about like trade as an
example like you know you need to like
you know have the flow of goods in and
out of the country.
>> So what are you flowing in and out like
what are you what are you growing? What
are you like making and what are you
flowing out and how is it getting into
the country and what infra like and
there's infrastructure needed to do all
of this
>> right? It's in the middle of nowhere
like there's water and there
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. You can look into other
two or three places. Let's start with
Hong Kong. It was a piece of rock
>> and it was just on the borders with
China. They had this Shenzhen next to
it, right? But it was really just the
free trade that made it very prosperous.
Similar story with Singapore,
>> right? They they never installed
basically customs.
>> Yeah.
>> Because they were not stupid. You know
they if somebody comes with some goods,
you don't try to rip them off before
they bring the goods to your country.
You welcome them because you know that
trade is something that can hugely
increase the prosperity in the country.
So also Liberal is as much as possible
open borders in these regards. When we
overcome some obstacles with Croatia, we
really want to be welcoming to
>> but Singapore like taxes the crap out of
their people.
>> Not necessarily.
>> Like it's like a big taxi like you know
like you you pay a lot of taxes in
Singapore. Well, corporations for
example have a zero tax regime.
>> But the individual, you know, like
people actually end up like paying a lot
of taxes. They can't afford houses.
>> The the housing is a different problem
in Singapore because by the way, that's
fun fact. you know that the housing in
Singapore is the most heavily subsidized
housing yet it is two to three times
more expensive than in Dubai where the
state doesn't try to so Singapore has
stayed out of business of many different
things and the tax like even the
personal taxes are not that bad compared
to Europe there's still one/ird or half
of what they're in Europe in many cases
so
>> no this is what happened like the reason
why I bring that up is basically look
all great intentions start with like
great intentions and then like reality
hits and as reality hits like you know
the system progresses into like what it
is not the identity is lost. Um I'm sure
like you know if you go and talk about
like you know free trade in like Dubai
now there is like there's taxation now
right like taxation is coming in right
so
>> push to start VAT tax yes
>> not very high still like you know a
couple percent but
>> but like you for you see that as a you
know as a source of revenue and as
you're balancing your budget like you
know like there's inflow there's outflow
and you got to manage that like and
people say hey there's a line item here
called like taxation can I improve that
like that way I can get more in so how
do
and AI systems like you know if you run
like autonomously like systems like
these it's greedy it's going to look for
like you know places where like you know
there are opportunities of making
profits and money and you know how do
you prevent like the system from
devolving into what like what you don't
want to believe as a vision
>> I I believe that we set up the
institutions in the right way we
literally took
>> but institutions are made of people like
inst like you know it's like the
founders thought as the founders are
lost like
The great thing about that anybody can
start new liberal land if they feel that
that the old liberal land has gone too
regulatory and overt tax. So yes like I
want to that's I would say the biggest
export element that Liberland has. We're
exporting this idea that it's possible
to start a new country. Anyway,
>> it's possible to do it based on these
ideas of letting people basically do
what they want, live and let live is our
motto, right? So, uh
>> so I can definitely see like you know
the the republic of like Bezos, the
republic of Zuckerberg, you know,
because they have a lot of money and
they couldn't like have their own
country. Yes, I think there is a huge
opportunity for that and the main reason
why this is not happening is that
they're not open not not enough
open-minded for these things. So,
>> but also like there is this other
element that you know the international
society or international like family of
nations and countries they don't really
allow like rich people to just start new
countries out of nowhere. Trump was
actually considering starting new
country before he became president of
United States. Uh the sa the saves
family for example the guys the richest
guys in Egypt tried not too long ago to
start a new country by buying island
from Greece but there is this great
resistance from existing countries to
allow individuals to start countries
like this from nowhere. What is kind of
believed is that you need to have a
nation you know really a group huge
group of people with shared beliefs
>> that they have to have some shared
history which we are building in liberal
land already and it's not just about a
rich individual it's really about having
an a true national movement to be able
to create country and turn it into UN
recognized country
>> but was was it not like you I I think
like you know your intentions were great
and that's why I think like God actually
helped you um that in intention actually
created an opportunity. The opportunity
was created with that seven square
kilometer which no one wanted to have
>> right like that that was the master
stroke here like you know no one wanted
to have that so you said let me have it
and let me build it around it um but
like you know when I how many of those
lands are out there because when you
when you don't have access to land like
that then you're annexing someone's
property you're going into someone's
land like you trying to buy an Alaska,
you're buying Alaska. You're annexing
someone's property,
>> right? So, how does that work? Like in
the sense like how many land pieces are
there which people don't want to own?
And how many like of these opportunities
are going to exist? And if that does not
exist, are we creating a more dangerous
society where people are going to fight
for land that is not theirs and in the
hope that they're going to create a more
liberal land? Am I making sense to you?
Well, to be honest with you, like what
what is happening these days is that
these institutions, these existing
states which are usually quite abusive
are claiming all this territory
everywhere, right? Like so it's really
difficult to find a piece of land where
you could actually prosper and people
are literally pack themselves into
places like Hong Kong, like Singapore,
like Dubai in order to to find more
freedom and get more business running.
So uh I think it's it's quite reasonable
that some of these bigger countries will
be dissolved into smaller pieces of land
>> or the opposite
>> or the opposite you know like think like
imagine what's happening like rest of
the world right um you could annex a
country commercially
>> in the sense you build the
infrastructure
>> you could annex the country like through
power military right like recent like
you know things you can annex the
country just by sheer money and wealth
>> like you know I go buy an island
>> for auction
>> but that still doesn't give you the
sovereignty or recognition by other
countries right it's this is the this is
the element like we haven't seen that
happening too much and there are these
people like Balaji that are running
around trying to do some shopping for
for some piece of land uh but I don't
think it's that easy you really need to
have first and that's this where this
concept of new concept of network states
came about from Balaji and from the
others is that you are able to basically
build completely decentralized society
but then you can start focusing slowly
on certain pieces of land and that's
where places like Prospera by the way
are a great inspiration.
>> Uh Prospera if you heard is a place in
Honduras which got quite a lot of
autonomy they created first special
economic zone and this special economic
zone is gaining more and more
sovereignty in some sense because it has
its own taxes its own rules. Now it's
another great way how we can kind of
blend this concept of liberal land into
existing countries. So we're also
running around talking to other
governments and telling them you know
let's do some nice free trade zone like
liberal style free trade zone within
your country and you wouldn't believe
how extremely powerful
liberal land concept would be if it was
directly supported by some existing
country. You understand like if we
actually tokenized everything in the
society made all the transaction
completely seamless have a hyperfast
justice system have a system where the
the country doesn't extort taxes from
you and if some of the existing
countries really decided to basically
build liberal land within their own
territory they would within 5 10 years
they would immediately have another
crypto Hong Kong on their own territory.
So that's also our pitch to the other
governments.
>> So like you know let's say like United
States is an amalgam of like 50 states.
Can there be like 50 republics of
Liberlands?
>> Of course. Of course. I mean that was
the fan graphics from the Argentinian uh
elections where the people voting for
Mille you know the the map was yellow
and it was called Liberland actually in
one of the televisions. So Argentina is
divided into like a red territories and
yellow territories which was that was
that was we have seen that already by
some like televisions in Argentina
naming half of Argentina a new Liberland
>> but are we not fragmenting the society
that way like are we not going to have
like a power struggle in the future
because like the more we fragment
ourselves the more we going to fight for
the next land for expansion purposes
>> you know this is really an ideological
thing and there are people that believe
that it's okay to to to take other
people's property by force. And there
are people that think it's immoral. And
yes, there are people that supported
communism for decades and they really
ruined the society. And there are people
that that flew these societies and then
they flourished in places like Monaco or
Hong Kong or Dubai. And Liberal was
really built for for these people that
feel kind of homeless or without the
state. And they share this belief that
uh that there is a urgent need to build
new form of society and I cannot inflict
it on everybody. You know this is this
is when we started liberal and I I tried
to do something similar like ch like
that in Czech Republic and there was
this debate and the guy tells me I told
him I would like to turn Czech Republic
into Switzerland and he tells me there
is not enough Swiss people in Czech
Republic and I had to tell him yes
you're right we don't have enough Swiss
people we have to actually start a new
society for for that to to happen to
make it reality
>> so I I like you know let me give give
you an example of uh like what I'm
thinking and like maybe like you know we
can have some discussion on this. See
the world has always gone from
centralization to decentralization to
centralization to decentralization
>> right so what you're proposing is
decentralized governance autonomous
governance right and when autonomous
governments and basically
decentralization happens then there's a
need for centralization somewhere
because like who was basically to tell
you're right and I'm wrong what is going
to tell me that otherwise I'm going to
be like power hungry and I'm going to go
like after you right so Um so that's why
like some of these bodies exist in the
world you know whether it's a NATO
whether it's a UN whether it's like some
of the they're sort of like you know the
checks and balances of the world order
right
>> so um so when you when you're
fragmenting the society that way there
is I also see the need like in the next
10 to 20 years after like this is fully
propagated something like counterbalance
theory where you're going into universal
governance again the same model that you
opposed
>> so are we not like how are we
>> I'm not saying that universal governance
in some sense is is like completely bad.
>> I'm just saying that it's really
important to see on which principles
that governance
>> works working and that is very important
and uh and of course you can have
voluntary association of all liberal
lands around the world that are sharing
shared goal. Uh it doesn't have to be
necessarily UN. It could be some sort of
new form of alliance between the
countries. Uh but yes, I I believe this
is the best kind of
composition when the the association on
the top is voluntary and the association
on the bottom in in the the nation
states is also voluntary
>> and the collection of taxes is voluntary
because again when you actually remove
this coercion from society we know very
well that every single lowering of taxes
by 3% 4% actually brings 1% of economic
growth per year and it's huge difference
if you're living in a country that grows
1% a year or if you if you live in a
country that goes that grows 5 10 15% a
year, right? You're either living in
like a stagnating
society that is in a sense dying or
you're living an enthusiastic
uh vibrating society that is based on
creativity and and really brings some
new values to to everybody. So why can't
like you know so let let me let me step
back and ask this question and I'm like
you know you brought me to a very
important topic like this is deeply
personal to me. So um I used to live in
slums in India.
>> Mhm.
>> Okay. Access to education uh access to
medical care um access to like basic
things was a big problem.
>> Okay. Um my my grandmother like you know
in 96 um she had a stroke and at the
same time like you know India has the
Indian Institute of Technology
>> and um you got to prepare for that like
you know a lot of like about like uh
200,000 people actually go give the the
tests and like only like 2,000 of them
qualify to get into the mainstream
engineering and so you prepare for that
like you know kids start preparing from
like grade like seven, eight, seventh
grade, 8 eighth grade. So you could
actually make it at that time
>> because it's super competitive and a lot
of kids actually commit suicide because
they cannot get in. Oh my god. Like you
know don't don't get me there on that.
>> So um so I was I was uh I was asked to
um by one of the institutes which
actually prepares you for that. I had a
free scholarship to go prepare
>> but I had to go from point A to point B
and like my uh we didn't have money and
resources. My my grandmother had the
stroke on the very day of my birthday.
So that's why I don't even celebrate it.
>> And she asked me to leave and she passed
away. Okay. Um I have a story where my
my mother actually ponder wedding
jewelry so I could have education. We
dreamt about a house. The house was
tribal for me. Mhm.
>> Like that was a form of identity. And my
mother sacrificed all of her like love
for a for her tribal identity for
something unknown like me, not even
knowing if I'm going to be successful.
My grandmother sacrificed her life. My
mother sacrificed her jewelry and her
life so I could have life. And is that
not the purest form of tribalism? And is
that not what we should promote versus
like this sectarian view like you know
like smaller countries, smaller nations,
smaller identities, smaller things, what
works for me doesn't work for you like
you know you believe in a different
system than I believe. Is it not like
the reverse that we should be actually
proposing to go after
>> well
>> the universe it was a like she was trans
like they were all transcending beyond
their identity into the super identity.
>> Yes,
>> you know.
>> Well, but it was their genetic identity
that they were supporting. there was
this strong family element to it, right?
And yes, in in some sense the countries
are kind of like greater families. Um
you know this this idea again that uh
you know you can like basically stop
caring about your government and just
move it to Brussels like we have in
Czech Republic. And this there's still
strong notion that they people somehow
believe that they would be better off if
their local politicians lost all the
power and some smart person in Brussels
will decide on their behalf. It doesn't
work like that. You know, you really
have to personally care about where your
children will go to school, not let some
AI decide about the future of your your
own children. Because if you don't do,
nobody else will eventually will. And if
you give your you if you delegate all
your powers to some anonymous person
somewhere on the other side of the
world, of course, it will be misused
eventually. So yes, like I still have to
like repeat this, you know, the the
power corrupts and the ultimate power
corrupts ultimately and when you
understand it as an individual or when
you understand it as a nation or as a
family or as a society, you have great
advantage because you understand that
that the identity or approach to nation
building from that perspective actually
creates the the most powerful countries
because you share with other people
the idea how your own government or your
family should be actually governed
>> but like are you like true like you know
you have shared identities and beliefs
but like because you don't share that
identity and belief in the same country
like you know let's take United States
right um Midwest doesn't behave the way
like the western side of the country
behaves or the eastern side of the
country behaves right so everyone has
their own like notion of what is right
and wrong now how do you even reconcile
the fact of what is right and wrong and
that's where like you begin to basically
fragment the society and say like my
belief is better than your belief. Who
are you to say
>> and we we get into this fight about like
and that's how like populism comes like
that's how byity of
>> you remove lot of problems when you
again remove the possibility of
politicians to steal money from its own
people.
>> I don't think it's just like stealing
money. I think it's also stealing values
like people think their values are at
like conflict. Someone doesn't believe
that like having like you know a
different identity beyond like a man and
a woman is right. M
>> I'm not saying it's right or wrong. I'm
just like saying like I'm just like
stating the facts, right? People believe
that like LGBTQ is like a sin.
>> Well, God made them that way. I we can't
stop that. But who are we to judge them?
But we do and we think that's a bad
thing in the society. And so we begin to
like think about like tribes in
different ways as we evolve as a
society. Are we not humans are I feel
>> tribal by nature
>> and we cannot lose that identity. So the
the the fact that there has to be a a
different form of country and governance
is it still a utopia of a thought or is
it like are we are we moving into a
dystopian thought?
>> Well I think we're moving in the right
direction
>> you are moving probably that's what you
believe.
Yeah.
>> So how do you move today? Like so what
passport do you have?
>> I have Liberland passport and I have
check passport. Right.
>> So how do you like when you come into
>> my Paraguay ID?
>> Paraguay ID. So when you move in like
when you come into Davos, which passport
are you using?
>> Well, usually I would use my check if
somebody shows me because
>> why can't you use a liberal passport?
>> If I can also use Liberal passport, I
would probably accept it.
>> So let's assume that you don't have any
passport. Someone stole your passport.
How would you introduce yourself? My
identity is now based on the fact that
of course I'm very well known as a
president of Liberal and anybody can
Google me or ask AI about who I am, how
I look like. So I don't think I even
need any of personal documents right now
because there is so much trace of what
we've been doing for last 10 years.
>> So they will let you because they can
see like you know what you're doing on
social media.
>> Yes,
>> they do like you believe that.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that's that's
quite likely because anybody can
identify me within a couple of seconds.
>> Got it. Got it. And so how would you
introduce yourself like you are like
with like the president of uh uh
republic of liberland is that how you
let's say like you know you don't have
that
>> and you don't have a passport how would
you introduce yourself
>> well
everybody has some sort of identity
right and
>> what is your identity in that case like
you don't have a passport you don't have
a country you don't have anything
>> oh well in that case I would still
probably say I'm guy from Czech Republic
doing something but uh
>> so you would go back to that identity
that like of Czech Republic.
>> Okay, great. So let's let's fast forward
and think about like like I'm really
enjoying the conversation. I love the
concept of legal land by the way like I
subscribe into it. I will apply for my
passport.
Yeah. So um so let's let's dig a little
d deeper into this like so um as a as a
society right like you know as you think
about like the problems in the society
we are fighting for like power control
dominance should we be fighting for
those or should we be like this like the
video suggests that we are a species on
the planet and like we should be
reallocated where like our experiences
are enriched.
Is that the purest form of like
happiness and life?
>> You know that that really comes down to
I would say that really is a role of
parents in in some sense and of course
parents can use the AI to say where the
kids should go. But I believe there is
this period of life when it's really
good to kick children out of their homes
and push them to live on their own. uh
if that maybe was a parallel to what was
what you put into the movie which I
quite liked as well. U so yes I would
say rather than giving it to some random
AI I would again focus on parents having
a substantial role in the way that the
the kids should be raised and where
should be raised. Uh so I'm
one of the first guys that will try to
get the kids out of household in that
sense that they find their own personal
responsibility for their lives and but I
will be always open to their suggestions
where they want to live rather than
giving it to some super intelligent AI
that will be pushing my kids around the
world somehow. Mhm. So is like so should
should there be like a form of like uh
Republic of Liberland which is actually
based on experiences in the sense it's a
collection of experiences that you can
have over a period of time. I come to
like Liberland as a time share to
explore like Danube River and like you
know spend like you know 2 months there
enjoying and then I go to like another
place experience like that like in two
years from now and go to another place
and go to another place and go to
another place. Is is that basically like
the purest form of like experience
enrichment?
>> Mhm.
>> Right. Because we're all like as humans
are searching for that.
>> Well, this is what we're building with
these diaspora villages. So on all
continent, we have two or three resorts
or villages that are that are associated
with liberal land. So you can literally
live traveling around the world just
visiting the places where Liberlanders
are flourishing. And of course the fact
that you are kind of in your own tribe
where the there are some shared values
that is not good to steal from your
fellow citizens and you don't do it
neither directly nor through state
because that's what people actually have
to swear when they become citizens. Then
you're in a safe environment. You're a
safe environment in the sense that
you're protected from other people
around you, but you're also protecting
against government that would like to
take some of your money in in that sense
that you know the villages are usually
in also some other countries where there
is very low amount of taxes and people
are having a good lives.
>> Yeah. So like let's so let's come back
to the original thought you had. You you
mentioned that basically nations are
very important because it like you know
prevents you or it enables you to move
from one form of governance into another
form of governance. The governance that
you don't subscribe into into the
governance that you want right uh in in
the world that we're talking about where
like experiences are different and
basically these are different lands like
you have to erase the concept of
boundaries to to have that. So should we
have the Republic of Liberland the way
it exists or should it be like a virtual
like world
>> with no boundaries whatsoever
everything? The good thing is that in
many ways and just like the Jews had
this is also not new concept right you
can subscribe to any jurisdiction you
want even if you live in Switzerland you
can we can agree that we are not going
to go to Swiss courts or to Swiss police
we are always going to go to Liberland
institutions
uh and that that is done through this
mobile app that basically gives you the
courts in your pocket uh you can easily
create contracts about anything that
you're doing through the mobile app uh
and we're very close like making it into
public and then really allows people to
basically enjoy the liberal land
environment no matter where they you are
around the world and we're giving you
another great thing which will launch
next month is that you will be able to
use our economic entities to invoice and
receive money or send money with your
liberal company but utilizing the set of
liberal offshore companies uh to do
business which I think is a is a great a
great new extra service that other
countries are not actually providing. Uh
but uh we are giving all liberal
companies the possibility again to
utilize the business network that we
have already created with bank accounts
uh with the different identities
business identities around the world to
use it as a as a intermediary for for
building building business uh for for
pure liberal companies.
>> So what is your form of currency like is
that like is do you have your own
customer We've got liberal dollar which
is the native uh token for the
blockchain liberal blockchain that is
also used for security of the
blockchain.
>> Is it like a stable coin or
>> not really? No, it's it's pretty wild
right from beginning. Uh and then we've
got liberal merit which is tied to your
voting power but it's also tied to the
land itself. So let's say you have 5,000
merits you have right to homestead 500
square meters in Liberland. So
everything now about Liberland has been
tokenized. But marries don't only
represent the land. They really
represents a true share of the country
itself with everything that it entails.
>> So if I if I bring money into Liberland,
let's say I set up a company in
Liberland and basically I'm like you
know um but my operations is in United
States
>> and I'm I'm I have a Liberland bank
account. Can the money go between
countries?
>> Sure.
>> How does it go?
>> Sure. Right. Right. Right now you can
actually for example you establish
Liberal company you can immediately open
a profile on market.lberland.l.land
market.l.land
and you can use stripe PayPal or know
these other things that we have there to
accept money on behalf of your personal
identity or or your Liberal company.
>> Got it. Got it. So it's like through
your regular payment game.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes.
>> And where does it go into a bank where?
>> Depends. Depends. But the these banks
are now based in Hong Kong, United
States actually.
>> Um,
yes.
And I do I pay zero taxes because it's
going through Liberland or do I pay like
United State taxes on it?
>> Well, depending how you're going to
receive the money, right? Okay. So if
you will receive it in a regular way,
you can you send an invoice back to or
if you decide to create some other
offshore entity which we can help you
with. It doesn't have to be just liberal
land that offshore entity can invoice
the original entity and yes like we're
able to actually create a good business
models which help people uh to get
better business done.
>> Wow. Okay. Very interesting. So, um, so
I have some, uh, rapid fire questions,
please.
>> You know, that we can go after. Um, so,
so someone cuts you off in traffic. Uh,
you look over and the the sticker on the
back is like someone you hate the most,
right? Or you love the most,
>> okay?
>> Let's say you love the most.
Would you have a different feeling
because like they're your tribe or would
you have because you're now angry like
someone cut in front of you,
>> right? But like the sticker says they
love the same guy that you love. Does
your perspective of who you are changes
about them? Well, of course, I think
it's natural again like it's you are
more likely to to be more
relaxed or more forgiving to person that
you feel you're affiliated with rather
than with somebody that you believe is
making your life tougher for you.
>> So concept of tribalism you believe in
that.
>> Great.
>> So now let let's basically like your
social media algorithm there are two
options. shows your content shows you
content from people you think you
exactly are like okay safe and
comfortable or shows you content from
people you completely disagree like you
know which feed makes you a better human
which of the feeds
>> I mean it's ultimately everything
>> one is challenging and uncomfortable one
is like you know like you know apple pie
and like you know mothership right so
like which one do you like like you know
what makes you better human like you
know is the uncomfortable one or the
comfortable one.
>> I'm not sure if if you can say that one
makes me better human or not, but of
course the conflict creates
some sort of always resolution. This
haggleian dialectic where basically
conflict creates a third way always is a
is an interesting concept which actually
works and yes like thinks engagement and
the society is kind of running on some
sort of conflict. If you don't have any
conflict, everything would be uh pink
and there would be no action basically
and life everything is yin yang, right?
That's how we've got dark and light and
and uh and that's the way that life
works in general.
>> So you're you're the head of the tribal
like gang and you cannot like influence
your own partners to actually like
believe in your system.
>> No, I'm working on it. I think it's
going to happen uh this this this year
actually. we will actually permanently
reallocate as we're building actually
quite nice uh again like um actually
even school at ARC we're building spa
longevity center and and the school is
moving in in September so I think
everything is kind of converging for us
to be able to fully allocate there
doesn't mean we will spend more than
half year there because we've got so
much business around the world and we've
got all these diaspora villages and and
you know people that invited us and we
didn't have time to visit or even
properties that somebody like entrusted
us to to take care of and we didn't have
still time to to visit. So I believe uh
yes Ark right next to Liberland and
Liberland will be very busy this year.
hundreds of people like moving in but
still there are so many great events
around the world there that I have to
visit just like Davos was a great
experience great fiveday event which
would be really b pity to miss and yes
we don't have Davos style events in
liberal we're working on it sure
>> let's say like you know your one one of
your two kids get subscribed into the
system of like what the AI is suggesting
in the future or like let's say online
kids right and then it says hey like you
know like you got to like move to
Shanghai and she doesn't want to move to
Shanghai. The system is telling that she
has to go to Would you resist or would
you comply?
>> Um
I I would resist you know I'm against
any kind of question. So I would
probably break that AI
>> but AI knows like best. You know you
said like AI should actually govern the
world. So so how do you reconcile that
fact? Like so what is right for your kid
is not right for the rest of the world.
No, I'm saying that the freedom to
choose is very important, right? And
like giving AI too much power like we
should still be on top in many ways,
right? Like uh and yes, like we have to
act more consciously, stop doing these
crazy wars, stop taxing people, stop
making nonsensical laws. And by the way,
we can see that there is something
happening in EU. this chancellor of
Germany came out and said well we we
messed up really badly you know we did
ruined EU economy by overregulation and
over taxation so there is there is some
common sense kind of coming into the
society which I'm quite positive about
>> is immigration good or bad because in a
society where you could freely move
around
>> you're like letting anyone come into the
world and in your space is it more safer
or more like
>> I think I think you know immigration is
really good thing but it should be based
on merits. It should not be based on
ethnicity or or anything else like
religion etc. But it should be be that
if you're able to provide value, you
should not be prevented to move
somewhere else where where people think
that they have to be protected because
they want only white people etc. But I
would leave this really to this the
countries themselves to decide. But my
approach with Liberland is that we're
not like super welcoming to everybody.
We we simply don't want criminals in
Liberland. We want people that respect
other people's property that don't break
it, don't steal it. U
>> you know how America was actually born.
Everyone who was basically prisoner and
had like some criminal history, they ran
away from America like from their native
land so they could be so they they were
they all like immigrated because they
were they were wanting to run away from
like the crime they committed. Like in
fact like you know my um it's funny like
you know my mentor he was like 92 years
old when I first met him. uh his his uh
father uh was a guy who actually ran
away from Austria to pre like to run
away from prison like you know he was he
was going to get like incriminated and
like and like was going to be
incarcerated so he ran away
>> and like you know
>> build new life of course like people
also also
>> so how how fair is that like you know
like they think like you know there's a
better way to live and like you know
they should be forgiven and they should
start over so like if Liberland is about
liberty and freedom should you not let
them
Is it meritocracy that should guide it?
>> No, we we really believe that in order
for us, we we are quite new and quite
fragile. We have to focus on really
having a a very nice group of people
kind of angels to start with. Maybe
later on, you know, we're able to take
on couple couple more little bit more
controversial people, but now we are we
have to be very very conscious about who
we are letting in Liberland.
>> Yeah. So, uh, your AI investment just
got a a government contract and there's
predictive, uh, policing. It reduces the
crime by 30%. It targets black
neighborhoods disproportionately.
>> Will you pull your investment out?
>> Well, why?
>> Because it's policing like the wrong
guys. It's think
>> why wrong guys? Why wrong guys? Like if
if that actually really helps to resolve
the crime in in some sense. It's
racially discriminating,
>> but it's not. It's, you said, it's
oriented on the crime. It's not oriented
on the color of skin. If the result is
that there is more policing in the areas
where more black people, it doesn't mean
that it's racially discriminating. It's
targeting the crime, not the color of
skin.
>> So, uh, you know, trade your passport
for global citizen status. Live
anywhere, work anywhere. Uh but you can
never say I'm from Liberland. Never
claim that like you're from Czech Czech
Republic. Would you trade it?
>> Uh
no. Because again it's some sort of
coercion. I'm against it by principle.
So
>> so climate change forces like Liberland
to get migrated like let's say you you
talked about the water level coming up
and down. Okay.
>> We have that already.
>> You have that already.
>> But it's not not climate change related.
It's not climate change.
>> No, no.
>> It's just like water like absent eent
flows.
>> Yes. Yes. And then like I would say 90%
of the things that are claimed to be by
media climate change related are just
the same old disasters that we had just
rebranded as a form of political tool to
be a part of climate change. Just just
to be clear on that part, you know, when
when I hear climate change disaster, I I
usually think like you guys took another
disaster that we would have anyway and
you you believe in climate change.
>> I I believe this is a hugely politically
misused topic for building this global
government framework because you have to
have this shared enemy. This is
something that these guys have been
planning for so many years. If you look
into Club of Rome and what they have
been writing, they they said they will
create this climate change crisis in
order to unite humanity. But they say
directly that the problem is not the
climate change, it's the humans
themselves. They usually they basically
use this whole ideology to unite humans
against humans.
>> It's it's quite unbelievable. Of course,
we don't have time to go into that. But
uh that was one of my important books
that I have written when I was on
university looking directly into this
topic and the club of Rome and how they
were thinking about organizing all these
climate policies
over the last three decades. Now
>> let's say there's a natural disaster and
uh basically like AI says you have to
like you know for the 700,000 people or
800,000 people who applied how many are
living in legal land today?
>> Not many. We've got basically just
security there and journalists. For
example, today we've got the the
Austrian press there with with bunch of
our security guys.
>> Got it. Got it. So let's say like you
know they all have to like go to a
different place. Would you let them do
that like because AI chose it?
>> No. Again some question and uh and to be
honest with you like we are so much
technologically advanced now. we can
live on Mars, moon and your somebody
tells me that he cannot live on this
planet because of one degree higher
temperatures in 100 years from now. I'm
not buying into it. Like we have this
plan of terraforming Mars and yet we are
worried about one degree uh change in
temperature in 100 years from now. It's
just ridiculous.
>> Yeah. So um do you have uh any
thoughts for us like you know like in
terms of like the world in future like
countries in future your aspirations?
>> I think we will have this still quite
volatile period of of this transition
from these existing old types of
blackbox governments which are sucking
up people's prop prosperity rather than
supporting it. And we will have this
transition let's say five to to 20 years
when these governments will have to
transition to Liberland like um systems
in order for them to be competitive
because there will be this huge
opportunity. The market of of states
will really become active. people will
be able to choose where they want to
live and how they want to live and and
this is what we want to bring about so
that people understand that there have
this this option and Liberal wants to be
one of the most competitive places in
the world for people to relocate to
>> like like you know I got to tell you it
like this is a very fascinating uh
conversation that I've had it's very
enlightening for me as well I I I always
used to reflect on how a country like
Australia was formed largely on
immigration like criminals was running
away and like settling in an island,
right? Um or basically how United States
was formed. This is no different than
basically all of those with a
technological blend to it. Um with a
much more like virtuous kind of
thinking. Uh we I wish you personally a
lot of luck in your endeavor. Uh because
you know you bring a different
perspective, a diverse perspective to
the form of governance, the way like you
know things need to be run, transparency
in the system. uh and I I I believe I
subscribe into all of that. Uh I may not
subscribe into 100% of the the things
that you're trying to do. Uh that makes
us like you know truly individual as
different people but I think that that
is also what we need as a society so we
could challenge each other to become
better humans. Yeah. In general so um
it's an amazing conversation. I really
loved it. Um I am going to of all the
people like you know subscribe and
become a citizen of the land.
uh not for tax benefits, not for like
you know purposes of like you know uh
having liberty of life and other things
but to just know that you're part of a
moment that is going to be the future.
You know I I see that like a lot of uh
uh you know governments and countries
and individuals moving and subscribing
into this theory. It's already happening
quite a bit and we have although also
had the history and the pattern sort of
repeating itself. US was created this
way. Australia was created many of the
places that we see around the world were
created this way. Um and uh I truly wish
you luck and uh my best uh you know
wishes on all the endeavors that you
want to
>> thank you very much. It was great
pleasure.
>> Thank you.
makes me wonder do having nations
does that push other nations to want to
do to like you know get stronger get
bigger and lead in certain uh factors
right so I wonder if having nations is a
good thing but also if there's a way
that we can all come together and it's
just so hard you know so many different
personalities and so many different
cultures and everybody wants to fight I
don't know if we could ever come
together as with one nation
unfortunately. So, uh, One Nation would
be an amazing idea.
>> What are nations? Nations are culture,
their music, their food.
>> It'd be great if like nations probably
participated and worked better together.
>> Do we need culture
or do we need war? Cuz without nations,
there's no war, right? Cuz then there's
no reason to fight amongst each other.
But then there's no identity.
>> I do think we need nations. Uh I come
from a multicultural background and I
think it brings a certain
level of diversity and different ways of
thinking, different ways of speaking
that are super unique to that individual
culture.
>> Like nations are just like lines on a
map, you know what I mean? Like it's
more about just like your culture, you
know, anything that can influence that
religion, like really anything. I feel
like we do need nations just because if
everyone's just doing their own thing,
there's really no like community sense
or anything like that. And I feel like
if people live in like a nation or
society where people are together and
kind of agree on the same rules and
values and all that, then I think it's
you're better off that way than just
doing kind of your own thing.
>> Just putting labels on stuff. I feel
like is that really necessary? I guess
you know what I Like I feel like that's
not really necessary. Um just matter
like people matter, you know, like lines
on a map just separate us more. So
>> I think economically maybe we need
nations for things, but I think socially
I think we should kind of act like we
aren't all divided by these fake borders
that we created.
>> You know, it's important to have other
cultures and other nations like
intertwined. But I think, you know, if
we're all the same nation and everything
just kind of gets blended together. And
I think some of your roots, you know,
happen from having nations. Where you're
from kind of develops different cultures
and different perspectives, which I
think is important.
>> As an individual being, why the going to
give about nations when you have no
power over the nations depending on your
level of education and and and
classification within the the social
structure. if there was more of a like a
consensus when it came to our our
leaders and and maybe thinking in a homo
like a homogeneous kind of like a way of
uh of addressing larger global issues
that would be uh probably great.
>> Listen, everything be about me is
community
and within the community that I exist
in. I live in I lost track of how many
cities it is. But whatever city I'm in.
It's a old song said, "Papa was a
rolling stone.
Wherever he laid his hat was his home."
I I don't think we need it.
And um because this nation is based in
so many different cultures that um
everyone has its own identity. I I don't
believe we need nations. If you ask me
where I'm from, I say earth. I'm from
earth.
>> I feel like nations are good if used
properly due to instead of being used as
a way to show support for one another. A
lot of times they're used to show
separation, which in reality, I think it
takes away from it since yes, it's okay
to be proud of where you're from and
stuff, but if you're using it to try to
say like you're different from someone
else, like you're creating that
separation by yourself. feel like it's a
lot of seeing that just because you're
from a different nation doesn't mean
you're any different from someone else.
It's more of just saying this is where
I'm from. This is where I grew up. This
is how I grew up. And yes, I'm proud of
that. But just cuz you grew up
differently doesn't make you any better
or less
>> in regards to borders.
Borders help us as far as keeping our,
you know, where we live in and the
population um it keeps the population
maybe down. Not that I don't love people
and having people in our country or with
us, but there needs to be boundaries to
to separate us and keep us safer.
>> Right now, I don't see how we get away
from having nations. So, I I think
they're necessary. I think we need to
learn how to cooperate among nations and
to uh um to serve everybody's needs.
>> Uh a country for me to move there would
need the following. safety, um economic
balance,
um
uh you know, the basics, uh
infrastructure, food, uh a good good
health care system, uh just the
standards to live, um beautiful culture,
uh prosperity, and most importantly, a
future. You know, there needs to be a
future in the country or else why would
I move there? If there's no future, then
I don't want to have kids there. I don't
want to settle there. I don't want to
buy a house.
>> I don't pledge allegiance to a flag
necessarily.
I pledge allegiance to the Constitution
of the United States. So like I say,
it's the values.
>> I would pledge allegiance to the flag
forever until I die.
>> So the attributes I think a country
would need for me to move there would,
you know, be obviously like
opportunities for jobs and like work.
>> For me to move to another country, it
would have to have good weather. I'm
going to be honest. Uh, it would have to
have a compassionate society that gave
health care and freedom to all
individuals, but I don't believe in the
every man for himself. I believe in
community. So, I wouldn't be interested
in living in a place where it's every
man for himself.
>> Be in San Diego.
>> San Diego would be good. San Diego's its
own nation. It'd be pretty cool.
>> It would need to have some sort of
benefits and incentives, I think, is
pretty basic answer. um some sort of
appeal that's different from where I
live, an advantage, whether it be
economic, social, or cultural.
Um obviously
an facility to speaking that language is
always easier,
but it would need to have some sort of
benefit or
appeal attraction for me to want to move
there. to make me want to move to a
country like a new country. Um like good
benefits, like good health care, good um
just environment, you know, cuz like the
healthcare in this country is pretty
bad. Obviously, like being able to just
like pay your taxes, live your life, and
kind of having like the country support
you in a way kind of like, you know,
they have your back. For me personally,
the US has everything I need as far as
like freedom of speech, you know,
freedom to do. You kind of are able to
do whatever you want. Um, and other
countries are not necessarily able to do
that.
>> First of all, I don't think I would
move. I I I love the United States. I
love what I have. I love where my family
is, and I couldn't see being that far
away from all the things I grew up with.
>> Um, so I can't see that. as long as
everyone's able to do what they
want but under a certain type of rule.
Um that's why I feel like the US is a
good country. We're able to do that no
matter you know where you come from or
what religion you know you have values
based on. Um I think just having a
certain set of rules that everyone can
agree to for the most part. I can see
where it would be attractive for
somebody
who um is looking for a kind of a
denominationalist
uh um society. You know, we like we have
Republicans, Democrats, Libertarians.
It'd be nice to have one form where
everybody is on the same page,
but I don't know how you get there.
>> Well, I think it depends on who you are
and what your values are.
I lived in New York, very liberal. I
live in Santa Monica, very liberal.
>> I wouldn't move to a place that wasn't
very liberal because I want to be
surrounded by the energy and the
like-minded people. So, it doesn't sound
like I want to move to Eastern Europe.
>> A country that has transparency, uh,
honesty, and is safe, I think, are some
of the big things. Uh, job security
would be good, too. So, the economy
would be good. be a good reason for me
to want to move to that country. Um,
good weather would be good.
>> So, but I think if people,
you know, wanted to live with that kind
of uh values and that kind of leadership
that would be very attractive.
A country has to have a democracy,
free speech and also everything what the
c citizens needs especially um a good
education,
jobs
and religion which is one of the best
thing for the human being in order to
keep doing good things. No matter what
religion but once you do what is right
it's okay. But a new nation.
>> Wow. I don't think it's going to work it
based how the world is now.
There it is. Y'all
